#### 1. Discuss one challenge you overcame during your academic development. What was the challenge, was it technical, nontechnical, or both, and how did you overcome it?
I would have to say the biggest challenge I faced during my academic development was time management.  I started my academic career much later compared to your average  student.  A consequence of this is I am already in the middle of a professional career, I'm married and as I'm typing this, my son is now 3 weeks old.  I have many                 obligations and responsiblities outside that of just university.  So time management was very critical throughout all of university.  It was a delicate matter to be able           to balance work, college and obligation to family.  I found the best way to overcome this challenge was to stick to a strict schedule for when and where I was going to             devote my hours of the day.  

#### 2. Discuss a situation where you worked with a team. How would you describe yourself as a teammate? Where can you improve your team skills?
One of the most memorable team experiences from university was in our Object Orienting Programming course.  Our group had to conceptualize a project to code in java from scratch.  Our team chose to code the game of *"Go Fish"*, we pieced out the project into parts, assigning a part to each member of the team.  For my part I got the drive file, the file that brought everyone elses code together and actually ran the game.  This put me in a position in which I had to communicate frequently with each member of my team.  I would describe myself as a very task/goal oriented teammate.  I'm always trying to accomplish the task at hand and keep the rest of the team informed on the progress so that we are all on the same page at all times.  My team skills could be improved through providing more aid to struggling teammates, I tend to over focus on my part of the project at hand and have faith that everyone else will deliver their portion.  This can cause me to fail to recognize when a teammate is struggling and could use some assistance.  

#### 3. What type of career in CS do you believe you are most suited for? Why this field and not another?
I've been in the precision measurement field for nearly 13 years now.  My current job title is a [metrologist](https://www.dictionary.com/browse/metrologist).  I started my CS degree in order to supplement my current career.  In particular, I want to use my CS degree to specialize in integration of measurement equipment and measurement software and the data collection within that software.  It is very difficult to find people both experienced in metrology and computer science, a niche that I aim to fill.  I'm opposed to other fields or opportunities but I enjoy my field and look forward to being able to contribute more to it.

#### 4. What professional organizations would you like to join? What professional development would you like to be a part of in the next five years?
I would like to join the [Association for Computing Machinery(ACM)](https://www.acm.org/) because of their wealth of resources and education offerings.  A project that I've been interested in for awhile now that is more personal than professional is [The Sword Project](https://www.crosswire.org/sword/index.jsp), it supports my personal desire to be of service to my community by contributing something I value myself.  

#### 5. What are the ways you can use the skills you have learned in CS to serve your community?
This is a difficult question to answer directly.  Ideally I would expect to use the skills I have acquired through my CS degree to contribute to projects or problems that help propel our society forward and never back.  To constantly seek improvement of our shared experience and strive to never harm fellow members of my community and any way.  
